=head1 NAME

Language - Language Specification for Kid

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document describes the Kid programming language.

=head1 General Layout of Kid Programs

Every Kid program consists of serveral statements:

    program: statement_list

    statement_list: statement(s)

The Kid language is free format, just like C/C++. So
whitespace can be used arbitrarily as long as the tokens
are separated. For example, one can say

    a:=3+2;

or

    a := 3 + 2;

or even

    a
    := 3
    +  2  ;

But one can not say

    a : = 3+2;

because the assignment operator ":=" is one token, not two.

It should be mentioned that Kid is case-sensitive, like most
other programming languages, such as C++ and Java. For this
reason, variable a and A are actually two variables, not one.

=head1 Statements

A statement can be one of the following: an if statement,
a code block, a proc definition or an assignment.

The BNF definition for a Kid statement is as follows:

    statement: if_statement
             | block
             | proc_decl
             | assignment

An example of if statement is

    if (x>0) { x:=5; y:=4 } else x:=x+1;

An example of a block is

    { x:=5; y:=x+1; }

An example of proc declaration is

    proc min (x, y) {
        if (x<=y) min:=x;
        else      min:=y;
    }

an example of assignment is

    x:=1;

=head1 Variables

Currently, the Kid variables can hold numeric data only. One
can assign an integer value to a Kid variable or assign a
floating point number to it.

There is no need (and also no way) to declare the variables
before using them. Every varible outside a proc definition
is considered global. And every variable in a proc definition
is local. One can not reference a global variable within
a proc body.

=head1 Assignment

The Assignment statement has the following syntax:

    assignment: variable ':=' expression
              | variable ':=' expression ';'

The syntax of the assignment operator ':=' is exactly the same 
some other languages such as Maple and Pascal.

The trailing semicolon (;) is optional. So you can say

    x:=3; y:=5;

or

    x:=3 y:=5

Either is okay.

=head1 If Statement

The BNF syntax for the if statements is as follows:

    if_statement: 'if' '(' condition ')' statement 'else' statement
                | 'if' '(' condition ')'


=head1 Block

A block is a Kid statement list wrapped by a pair of curly brackets:

    block: '{' statement_list '}'

For example,

    { x:=3+2; }

and

    {
        y:=y+1;
        if(x>0)
            x:=5
        else
            x>0;
    }

=head1 Procedures



=head1 AUTHOR

Agent Zhang L<mailto:agentzh@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2006 Agent Zhang. All rights reserved.

The Kid compiler is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
